### Test Report 1
#### Project Manager Functions, Folder Structure Check, Quake III structure check.


<br/>

Tests initiated on Saturday, February 1st 2025<br/><br>

---

<br>
Due to the general complex nature of the folder structure, quake 3 folder structure and project manager functions, I've decided to go ahead and conduct manual tests on these functions. I will conduct more pytests on smaller functions found in the demogen, mapgen and other vital parts of Avant. However, as I found the projectmanager/structure functions to be quite expansive and as I wasn't quite sure how to tackle some of these with pytest, I've decided to conduct some good old tests by hand and with the built-in debugger inside of Visual Studio Code.

<br/>
The following tests were conducted: <br/> <br/>


* **What happens when a user boots Avant with no Avant folder present within their My Documents Folder?** <br/>
Avant will automatically create it for them, including a internet shortcut for the documentation website.

<br/>


* **What happens when a user boots Avant with a Avant folder generated by the algorithm (the expected behavior)?**
If all files and directories related to Quake III are still in their respective places, the algorithm boots normally. If not, it will throw an error and delete the settings file.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user boots Avant with an empty Avant folder present within their My Documents folder that was not generated by the algorithm?** <br/>
It will accept the folder, but not generate a shortcut to the documentation, which is a price I am willing to pay. Folders such as 'avant' or 'avanT' are still recognized and used. When changed to 'lololol', even with a settings file present, avant booted right into the setup as expected.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user boots Avant with an empty folder containing a similar name to Avant (avanT)?** <br/>
As described, it works but at a price. No link to the documentation is automatically provided. For now it's a price I am willing to pay, but it could be added on the roadmap for a future update.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user tries to boot Avant for the first time?** <br/>
It runs the setup and asks the user for their quake 3 directory.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user cancels out of their Quake III selection screen?** <br/>
It will show a cancel message and terminate Avant, as expected.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user selects a wrong Quake III folder?** <br/>
It throws ERR007, ERR008 and ERR009 at the same time, and shuts down the algorithm.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user selects a Quake III folder with missing pak.pk3 files?** <br/>
It throws ERR008 and indicates there are missing PAK files. If there's a settings file present, it will be deleted by Avant, as expected.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user selects a Quake III folder with missing mme dependencies?** <br/>
ERR009 is thrown, as expected. If the folder has been deleted upon boot with a settings file present, avant will delete the settings file, which is the expected behavior.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user tries to start the Project Manager with no projects in their Avant folder?** <br/>
The expected behavior is shown, as avant will force the user to create a project. If the input is empty, the user will be returned to the main menu. There are still a few issues though, as the menu's are currently overlapping. I have forgotten to add a few mentions of the utilities.clear() method.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user creates a project, deletes the project and tries to see their project overview while remaining inside the algorithm during deletion?** <br/>
It works, the algorithm will show an empty overview. This is no problem so far for me. When the user heads back into the main menu and returns to the avant project manager, it will directly ask them to make a new project. I don't mind that the user is able to have a empty overview.

<br/>

* **What happens if there is no Quake III exe file in the Quake III folder?** <br/>
When there is a config file present, it will be deleted. When the setup is completed, only 2 files/directories are found and ERR007 is thrown, as expected. Once the user restarts the algorithm it will reprompt the user for their q3 directory.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user tries to create a project, subsequently view it, modify it, view it again, delete it, exit out of the project manager and tries to re-enter the project manager with no projects present?** <br/>
It will automatically ask the user to generate a new project. If it presses enter with an empty input, it will return back to the menu, however it does not clear the console yet. I will have to change that. A few functions in the manage avant projects section have missing terminal clear functions.

<br/>

* **What happens when a user tries to create a project, delete it, and try to go to the view and modify functions with no projects present?** <br/>
All functions work. View and modify will simply return an empty overview. After that, the user can return to the project menu with the return key.

<br/>


* **What happens if a user tries to create a new folder inside the avant folder, boot up avant and tries to view their project overview?** <br/>
It works, since Avant will print all folders present in the avant folder. I will have to include some failsafes in the demogen/editorgen and so forth that will check whether the required folders exist, and if not, they should automatically create them so that everything stays in place.

<br/>

----

